[Merged by Bors] - Initial listener-operator implementation (#1)
stackabletech/listener-operator: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/volume.adoc

= Volume

TODO: Expand severely.

> The LB Operator acts as a CSI `PersistentVolume`, which helps it to stabilize network addresses, inject pod metadata and expose individual pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Listener Operator acts as a CSI `PersistentVolume`, which helps it to stabilize network addresses, inject pod metadata and expose individual pods.
```

== Stable addresses

Some xref:listenerclass.adoc[] strategies, such as `NodePort`, tie the public address to the Kubernetes node that the `Pod` is running on. When this address must be configured statically in clients
(such as for HDFS NameNodes), then Kubernetes' default "floating" scheduling either requires all clients to be reconfigured every time something moves, or for all clients to proxy their traffic through
a single static node, which then becomes a single point of failure (along with the node that the workload is running on).

Mounting listeners into Pods as `PersistentVolume` allows the Listener Operator to pin these workloads to one node. Note that this only happens for xref:listenerclass.adoc[] es that actually benefit
from pinning.

== Pod metadata injection

Some services (such as Kafka) need to know their external address, so that they can advertise it to their own replica discovery mechanism. xref:listener.adoc[] volumes contain a file tree that exposes
this information:

[source]
----

> - `default-address/`- A symlink to `addresses/\{primary address\}`

Author: Huh, this has caused issues before, weird.

= Volume

TODO: Expand severely.

lb-operator acts as a CSI `PersistentVolume`, which helps it stabilize network addresses, inject pod metadata, and exposing individual pods.

== Stable addresses

> Some xref:loadbalancerclass.adoc[] strategies, such as `NodePort`, tie the public address to the Kubernetes node that the `Pod` is running on. When this address must be configured statically in clients

Author: Yeah honestly I don't know. I try to be consistent about highlighting K8s objects (and their "physical" counterparts), but that also makes pluralization a total pain.

> Some xref:loadbalancerclass.adoc[] strategies, such as `NodePort`, tie the public address to the Kubernetes node that the `Pod` is running on. When this address must be configured statically in clients

Reviewer: True. What about for the first occurrence in each file we highlight and link to the Kubernetes docs and then just use it normally (but that is kinda error prone...)?
Or we just skip the highlighting and write them capitalized?

> Some xref:loadbalancerclass.adoc[] strategies, such as `NodePort`, tie the public address to the Kubernetes node that the `Pod` is running on. When this address must be configured statically in clients

Author: I think I'm ok with capitalizing without highlighting.

> Some xref:loadbalancerclass.adoc[] strategies, such as `NodePort`, tie the public address to the Kubernetes node that the `Pod` is running on. When this address must be configured statically in clients

Author: @fhennig Any thoughts, as the resident docs czar?

(such as for HDFS NameNodes), then Kubernetes' default "floating" scheduling either requires all clients to be reconfigured every time something moves, or for all clients to proxy their traffic through
a single static node, which then becomes a single point of failure (along with the node that the workload is running on).

Mounting load balancers into Pods as `PersistentVolume` allows lb-operator to pin these workloads to one node. Note that this only happens for xref:loadbalancerclass.adoc[] es that actually benefit

> from pinning.

Author: I wish, but Asciidoc doesn't allow partial code blocks. It'd either have to be "`Pods`" or "`Pod` s", both of which also kind of suck...

== Pod metadata injection

Some services (such as Kafka) need to know their external address, so that they can advertise it to their own replica discovery mechanism. xref:loadbalancer.adoc[] volumes contain a file tree that exposes
this information:

[source]
----

> - `default-address/`- symlink to `addresses/\{primary address\}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `default-address/`- A symlink to `addresses/\{primary address\}`
```

- `addresses/` - Contains information about all addresses associated with this xref:loadbalancer.adoc[]
  - `\{address\}/` - A folder is created for each address
    - `address` - Contains the Pod's address (IP address or hostname)
    - `ports/` - Contains port numbers for each named port
      - `\{port name\}` - Contains the public port number for this named port
----

== Individual pod exposure

> Sometimes each replica much be exposed individually, for example because clients need to access data on a specific shard. `PersistentVolumeClaim` templates can be used to provision this automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes each replica must be exposed individually, for example because clients need to access data on a specific shard. `PersistentVolumeClaim` templates can be used to provision this automatically.
```

=== `StatefulSet` `volumeClaimTemplates`

> `volumeClaimTemplates` allows volumes to be provisioned for each `StatefulSet` replica. These volumes are _persistent_, and will not be deleted when the `Pod` or `StatefulSet` is. This makes them
> useful for provisioning addresses that must be hard-coded into client configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `volumeClaimTemplates` allows volumes to be provisioned for each `StatefulSet` replica. These volumes are _persistent_, and will not be deleted when the `Pod` or `StatefulSet` is. This makes them useful for provisioning addresses that must be hard-coded into client configuration.
```

=== Pod-scoped ephemeral volumes

> `Pod.spec.volumes[].ephemeral` allows volumes to be provisioned for each `Pod`. These volumes are tied to the lifetime of the `Pod` and will be deleted when it is. This makes them useful for provisioning
> temporary addresses that will be discovered out of band (such as for HDFS DataNodes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Pod.spec.volumes[].ephemeral` allows volumes to be provisioned for each `Pod`. These volumes are tied to the lifetime of the `Pod` and will be deleted along with it. This makes them useful for provisioning temporary addresses that will be discovered out of band (such as for HDFS DataNodes).
```
